Vote Text for comments (#8)
Valdorff/rp-thoughts: vote_text_drafts/rpip-30.md

> Vote options:
> - For
> - Against
> - Abstain

# RPL Staking Rework (RPIP-30)

This vote aims to align RPL reward spend with rETH capacity created.

### Summary
- RPL rewards will scale differently, with a focus on aligning RPL rewards with supplying rETH

> - It will be possible to withdraw down to 15% borrowed ETH

Reviewer: What's the before after here? 10% to 15%? Might be worth including?

Reviewer: Ah, the 10% deposit is unchanged?

Author: Down from 150% of bonded ETH. Will include.

> - We will ramp to both of the above states

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We will transition to the new states over six reward periods
```
Numbers are right, right? It was 6 periods?

Author: It's complicated. Over 6 periods except the 2-step withdrawal thing which needs a smart contract upgrade. Will add words.

> - Withdrawing will be a 2-step process where RPL is set to "withdrawing" for 28 days before it can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Withdrawing will become a 2-step process where RPL is set to "withdrawing" for 28 days before it can
```

  be withdrawn

### Rationale

> The main goal is to align the DAO's spending on RPL rewards with the DAO's goals. In particular, we'll continue to send 70% of inflation to Node Operators, but align it far more with amount of minted rETH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to align the DAO's spending on RPL rewards with the DAO's goals. In particular, we'll continue to send 70% of inflation to Node Operators, but better align it with the amount of minted rETH.
```

> _Please_ read the Intro document's [context section](https://github.com/Valdorff/rp-thoughts/tree/main/rpl_staking) for a visual representation of spending before and after this change. 

Reviewer: Does snapshot support images?

Reviewer: Link direct to context: <https://github.com/Valdorff/rp-thoughts/tree/main/rpl_staking#context>

> ### Detailed Outcomes

Reviewer: If successful...

- RPL rewards will scale differently
  - Adding a minipool will increase RPL rewards (even if you already had enough staked RPL)
  - Converting an EB16 to two LEB8s will increase rewards (even if you already had enough staked RPL)

>   - You need staked RPL value of ≥10% borrowed ETH to get RPL rewards [unchanged]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You will need staked RPL value of ≥10% borrowed ETH to get RPL rewards [unchanged]
```

Fix tense... Not sure if valid given that its unchanged.

Author: going with "will still"

>   - Staking more RPL means more rewards [unchanged], though now without a maximum (note that marginal APR gets lower and lower as more is staked)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Staking more RPL will mean more rewards [unchanged], though now without a maximum (note that marginal APR gets lower and lower as more is staked)
```

match tense

>   - Beyond 15% borrowed ETH, additional rewards go up slower and slower

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Beyond 15% borrowed ETH, rewards will increase at a slower rate.
```

I'm not sure of the exact functionality from this. Try to distinguish between:
* Rewards increase at a fixed lower rate after 15%.
* The rate of rewards decreases as the staked percentage increases after 15%.

Author: The latter. Marginal APR is decreasing.

  - The rewards changes will be phased in slowly over 6 months
- It will be possible to withdraw down to 15% borrowed ETH

> - Make withdrawal a 2-step process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RPL withdrawal will become a 2-step process
```

Match tense

  - Set X RPL to "withdrawing"; these RPL are no longer eligible for rewards or voting 
  - After 28 days, the RPL may be withdrawn

>   - Remove the current "28-day withdrawal lock when you stake RPL" 

Reviewer: Should go back up the bullet hierarchy here? This is not part of the two-step process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The current "28-day withdrawal lock when you stake RPL will be removed" 
```

Reviewer: Ah, I may have misunderstood. Is this in relation to more RPL being staked resetting the withdrawal timer? If so, should clarify.

Author: This is a separate timer, but it can't be removed until the 2-step process is live.

Going with up the hierarchy and
> - Once the 2-step process is implemented, remove the current "28-day withdrawal lock when you stake RPL"

>   - Phase in the new rules partially over time, then fully with the next smart contract release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -The new rules will be partially phased in over time, and then fully implemented with the next smart contract release
```

  - Note that this will apply to all withdrawals, even ones that would currently be instant

>   - Note that this doesn't apply to claiming rewards, as that isn't a withdrawal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Note that this will not apply to claiming rewards, as that isn't a withdrawal
```

match tense

> - These changes apply equally to both existing and new NOs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- These changes will apply equally to both existing and new NOs
```

Reviewer: tense

### Context

> - [Intro document](https://github.com/Valdorff/rp-thoughts/tree/main/rpl_staking) 

Reviewer: Would generally prefer if this was somewhere reliable. Ie the RPIPs repo.

Author: Need to address this one still!

Author: Went halfway and included both options (as the pdf is just uglier tbh). Future-looking, I've learned my lesson and will have the research work in the RPIP repo proper.

- [Forum thread](https://dao.rocketpool.net/t/rpl-staking-rework-proposal/2090)

> - [Full RPIP](https://github.com/rocket-pool/RPIPs/blob/main/RPIPs/RPIP-30.md)

Reviewer: Link portal? :)

Reviewer: I could have sworn one of us fixed the image rendering... But apparently no.
